♪♪

The bones of dinosaurs are
often very well preserved
indeed.

But that's not the case with
the skin or the soft parts.

So, imagining what they looked
like has been largely amount of
guess work.

But now, some truly exceptional
fossils have been discovered

that have changed all that.

♪♪

David Attenborough:
One of the most startling
discoveries

David Attenborough:
has been the presence of
feathers

David Attenborough:
on a large number of species,
including the Velociraptor.

♪♪

The idea that dinosaurs like
Velociraptor were fully
feathered

is no longer at all
controversial.

Dr. Darren Haish:
We currently know of about 60
dinosaur species

Dr. Darren Haish:
that are completely covered in
feathers just like modern birds.

Some of the most perfect
fossilized feathers have been
discovered in China.

This is an image of a specimen
that was found in 2015.

David Attenborough:
It's called Zhenyuanlong.

David Attenborough:
And you can probably guess
from these huge claws on its feet

that is was related to a
Velociraptor.

But also you can see amazingly
perfect detail

of feathers down its tail and
more on its arms, its wings.

♪♪

David Attenborough:
For Velociraptor in particular,
fossils have been even found with indentations in the bone,

David Attenborough:
showing exactly where feathers
would have been positioned.

(Chirping)

Prof. Paul Barrett:
They would have looked very
different from that 

Prof. Paul Barrett:
scaly monster that we're
familiar with.

Prof. Paul Barrett:
They would have been coated 
in lots and lots of feathers.

And would have looked a lot more
like a kind of really terrifying
turkey.

The fossil evidence for
feathers, may be clear and
incontrovertible.

But why would a flightless
predator, like Velociraptor

need feathers in the first
place?

David Attenborough:
A downy coat may soften their
image of scaly reptilian killers.

David Attenborough:
But in fact, feathers would have
made Velociraptors even more deadly,

David Attenborough:
allowing them to attack
unsuspecting prey

David Attenborough:
where no other hunter would be
able to venture.

♪♪

Dr. Darren Naish:
When we look at modern animals,
we see that feathers

Dr. Darren Naish:
are useful for so much more than
just flying.

♪♪

For an animal like Velociraptor,
feathers would have helped to
control movement.

Dr. Darren Naish:
Particularly when the animal was
leaping, climbing or changing direction during a hunt.

♪♪

(Chirping)

David Attenborough:
Feathers can also function as a
kind of suit of armor,

David Attenborough:
providing protection from the
blows of prey

David Attenborough:
as well as from collisions with
the environment.

♪♪

David Attenborough:
And that would have allowed them
to succeed

David Attenborough:
even in the most difficult
terrains.

♪♪

